# Truth Commission Agent

Truth commissions, such as the South African [Truth and Reconciliation Commission](https://www.britannica.com/topic/Truth-and-Reconciliation-Commission-South-Africa) and the Colombian [Special Jurisdiction for Peace](https://www.jep.gov.co/Sala-de-Prensa/Documents1/What%20is%20the%20Special%20Jurisdiction%20for%20Peace.pdf), play a fundamental role in post-conflict reconciliation processes. They aim to identify the root causes and consequences of human rights violations by collecting testimonies and evidence from victims and perpetrators of political violence. In this repository, I implement a Large Language Model (LLM)-based multi-agent  system that simulates the process of obtaining information from alleged perpetrators of political violence with conflicting motives and interpretations of events that took place over the course of a hypothetical years-long civil war. 

The [prototype](https://github.com/allisonkoh/TruthCommissionAgent/blob/main/code/prototype.ipynb) for this multi-agent system takes place in _Pacifica_, which is a fictional country that has been torn apart after years of civil war that culminated in a violent military coup. The new leaders of Pacifica have faced international pressure to reckon with the atrocities that took place throughout the conflict. In an unprecedented act, they established the _Commission for National Reflection_ (CNR)---an official truth commission tasked with investigating human rights abuses, documenting an impartial and comprehensive historical record from all sides, and facilitating national reconciliation. In this phase of the CNR's investigation, representatives from the ruling military Junta, the former government, and opposition groups have been invited to piece together a detailed account of the events that preceded this critical juncture in Pacifica's recent history. By engaging these potential perpetrators and in dialogue with one another, the CNR seeks to uncover what happened in order to explore the decision-making processes that took place throughout the conflict and prevent this from happening again.

In this dialogue simulation, representatives from each group provide a brief testimony on what happened throughout the week leading up to the military coup. They take turns recounting these events on a day-by-day basis, with minimal intervention from the CNR. The CNR representative initiates the discussion, announces when the `Military Junta`, `Overthrown Government`, and `Democratic Opposition` agents should move on to discuss the next day, and concludes the discussion.

This prototype contains code that does the following:

- Generates 3 LLM-based agents representing the Democratic Opposition, Military Junta, and Overthrown Government with their own unique sets of goals, beliefs, and behavioral tendencies that will guide their actions in the simulation
- Simulates an interaction between the agents, in which agents recount detailed information about what happened in the week that culminated in the military coup
- Saves all transcripts and relevant information to be used for preliminary assessments of the prototype

Overall, this prototype offers initial insights into the processes of post-conflict reconciliation and political transition. It also showcases the potential of using Large Language Model (LLM)-based multi-agent systems for political science research in a novel context.
